if you watch how somebody moves through
the world you are witnessing the after
effects of their identity
[Music]
i'm just dumb enough to make a lot of
mistakes but just smart enough to fix
some of them
the one rule you need
do
and believe
only that which moves you towards your
goal
dying does not scare me putting myself
out there running the actual risk of
hitting the point where i cannot
generate enough atp to continue to
[__] breathe that does not scare me
what scares me
is not being the person that i want to
be
i think that quote is super powerful
don't make me as extraordinary as a way
to let yourself off the hook so i was
not the person that anybody expected to
succeed
uh my mother didn't think i was going to
succeed my father-in-law certainly did
not think i was going to succeed and
quite frankly even i wasn't entirely
sure because i didn't understand the
game i didn't understand what the
process was to actually get better
wherever you are in your life however
lost you may feel there actually is a
path that you can walk that is step by
step where you're going to accumulate
the beliefs the rules
the identity
and the process steps that you're going
to need to walk to accumulate the skills
that are going to let you actually
execute on your dreams i want to just
stand up here and say like really sexy
[__] all the time that sounds rad in a
clip but the fact is that'll get you
hype and then you won't be able to do
anything with it and so one of the key
things we're going to talk about today
is identity and i'm telling you right
now if you watch how somebody moves
through the world you are witnessing
the after effects of their identity
whatever they've built for themselves
so right now if you were at my house if
you guys think of the set that you're
very used to seeing if you were to turn
the camera away from us and point at
that wall over there
you would see a big painting of michael
jordan and people always come in and
they ask tom you a fan michael jordan
the bulls i'm like man i don't know [__]
is he playing basketball is that what
that is because i don't [__] know
all i know is the story of the flu game
how many people have heard of the flu
game
all right that's what i like to see
so i don't follow basketball at all but
i hear this story about michael jordan
that cements in my mind him as a true
legend not because of all the crazy
stats and stuff that he put up but
because
the night before like game six of the
finals he either gets the flu or food
poisoning probably food poisoning
maybe even intentional food poisoning
and he plays with 103 degree temperature
now if you've ever had a 103 degree
temperature you know how real that [__]
is it is all you can do to remember your
name to stay focused and for him to go
in and not just play but put up some of
the best numbers
of the tournament
in that condition that tells you about
the man's identity
that does not tell you about his skill
set
there are a lot of skillful players who
in that moment they don't play it
doesn't even occur to them to play
because their identity allows for that
moment of weakness and they take it
or they may even think that the only
smart thing to do is to sit this out
that he could really injure himself by
going in and pushing at a time i mean
look if it's influenza that [__]
actually kills people
so to push yourself and that's the
advice you're going to get and right now
i will tell you
this is my flu game part three
so i did a double episode of impact
theory with the flu i had 102 degree
temperature it was [__] insane you
literally are like dipping out in and
out of like reality it is so [__]
surreal you guys know that feeling where
it's like yo i am completely detached
from what is going on i see their lips
are moving
i know they're saying some [__]
but i don't know what the [__] that [__]
means
and i've got to say something
interesting and like actually hold this
[__] together it was crazy poor jim
quick who was my flu game round one
jim took one look at me and was like yo
this [__] is gonna die you guys
realize that right he's actually gonna
die right here in this [__] episode
and if you watch that again literally
i'm like jim quick everybody and then he
just won run on sense for a whole hour
episode he was so afraid to let any of
the attention come back to me he was
like tom i was afraid if i made you
speak you were gonna break like right
there
but i had told the team i said look i
will never let this team down
that's identity
i will never let this team down that is
who i am to the core of my being
this is what i mandate of myself
now i don't want to play with the flu i
don't ever want to get the flu
but if i get the flu
you better know that i'm gonna show up
so i go in
i do the two episodes i do everything i
can to make them a high level
intelligent episode worthy of the canon
we get through that and i think all
right i've got my flu game that was
really [__] hard like the prep was
actually more difficult because i was so
sick that day i had 103 when i was doing
the prep 102 when i actually did the
talks and
i was really proud of myself and i
thought okay i've done it
i've earned that flu shot painting now
that i've got hanging up and hopefully i
never have to do that [__] again
and then
i get sick over christmas break i think
okay it's good timing a little lame
because my family's in town
but get it out of the way be all good
and it is it's actually i would say i
get sick less than once a year so when i
get sick i think all right we've got it
out of the way now i definitely don't
have to worry about this until next year
and so you can imagine my surprise when
like seven days later i start coughing
i'm like man
the [__] is this
and you know at first you're like did i
just swallow funny
and then an hour later you're still like
huh
and so i come home that night
and this is what lisa and i do
this is what we do if one of us is sick
and she was like hey
why you giving me the head
and i was like yeah you
know i've been coughing kind of funny i
don't know i don't feel sick but
i am coughing i don't want to get you
sick so let's just see how we roll and
then i woke up the next morning and you
know how you have those fever chills
where
you're you're so uncomfortably warm you
have to get the covers off you and then
you get the covers off you and all of a
sudden you're [__] freezing to death
in like point three seconds you're like
how the [__] did i body temperature
can't adjust that fast
so how did i just go from sweating
buckets to shaking uncontrollably
and so then i'm trying to move around
the house
and because i'm not sleeping in the same
room with her because i don't want to
get her sick
i have to like do simple things like get
up to get a sweatshirt and i literally
my knees are knocking i'm so cold i'm
like [__] man this is going to be rough
because i'm staring at a double episode
again of course and so at that moment
i'm thinking courtney
i hate you
i hate you and everything you stand for
courtney
because we're always trying to schedule
two episodes at the same time
now when i'm healthy hey that's great
because it saves money
when i have the flu that's not so fun
so i tell the team look yep i'm in a
rocket i will be there but i'm gonna
hide upstairs
that way i'm not gonna get anybody sick
so i'm just gonna go upstairs between
episodes i'll do my thing warn the
guests let them know that uh you know if
i don't hug them or whatever it's not
because i don't care it's that i
actually care so much i don't want to
get them sick so like cool awesome yep
no problem i go in now the problem is if
you guys have ever had like the proper
influenza you guys know about the the
flu of 18 uh 1918
that [__] killed like 60 million people
that's real by the way watch [__] um
downton abbey
they show no for real they do a great
job of cataloging it's like hey world
war one just killed a whole bunch of
people how crazy [__] now everyone is
dying of the
more people killed by the flu than world
war one no one ever talks about the [__]
but people legitimately die of the flu
so
i'm like all right i need to take this
seriously i need to get my sleep this
one is kicking my ass i need to be
careful roll up i do my episodes and i
get them done
and i think okay cool now i should have
plenty of time to rest
i've got a weekend between now and then
i'll rest up i should be good
and then
here we are literally this is day eight
of this [__] this is like ebola at this
point i cannot shake this [__]
and so i wake up this morning and people
have been asking me for days now like
hey how you feeling how you feeling
you're going to be okay for this how you
feeling you're going to be all right we
can always postpone we can cancel it tom
just let us know we want to take care of
you and i'm like look [__] let
me introduce you to identity you may
have to wheel my ass out there with a
[__] iv
that [__] could be real
but i'm doing the [__] set
[Applause]
thank you that applause let me mask a
really nasty cough that was nice thank
you
what is up my friend tom bill you here
and i have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
i've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring and even when you might be afraid
of the outcome if you fail building your
levels of personal discipline is not
easy but let me tell you it pays off in
fact i will tell you you're never going
to achieve anything meaningful unless
you develop discipline if you're not
already a 10 out of 10 with this skill
and i use that word intentionally
because it is a skill you can build it
you can get better at it class from
impact theory university called how to
build ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
promise if you want to achieve your
goals this is the number one thing you
have to focus on as jocko willing says
discipline equals freedom right click
the link on the screen register for this
class right now and let's get to work i
will see you inside this workshop from
impact theory university until then my
friends be legendary peace out
that's identity
and the punchline of tonight so we try
to do a different event every time so if
you guys were to like deadhead with me
and rock across the [__] world and do
these live events with me you're gonna
see they're unscripted i do them
differently every night they're based on
a theme ideally something that's really
relevant to the exact people that are in
this room in fact in a second we're
going to play a video that's going to
kind of set things up
and the theme now obviously january it's
a good time to talk about resolutions
but making resolutions is not very
[__] interesting everybody makes
resolutions everybody's got a dream
there are things that people want i get
it you get it
but there was a recent study done
that showed that 92
of all resolutions fail to stick
if that doesn't
scare you
it should
92 i mean that tells you something about
the human animal that is like a judgment
on our species
but there is a trick in there that you
can leverage to make sure that you fall
into the eight percent so i become
obsessed what the [__] is the eight
percent doing that the 92 are not doing
and that's my whole life everything in
my life is a result of putting myself
into that eight percent group that see
things through that is not my natural
state of being
it's not like growing up that's what my
parents taught me to do nothing like
that i had to claw my way
to figuring out
what it is exactly that you have to do
to take something from an idea that you
find interesting enough to jot it down
in your line journal
which hopefully has the impact theory
logo on it
available out front
that's all the cheap [__]
where i'm gonna make my bones where i'm
gonna make a name for myself or
disappear into [__] obscurity
is this this is me this is what has made
me useful to a room full of people
i'm just dumb enough
to make a lot of mistakes
but just smart enough to fix some of
them
and i sit in this sweet spot like i
don't know if you guys feel this way but
every time i get instructions on how to
put like an end table together i think
they need someone [__] dumber making
these instructions how the [__] you're
skipping steps
like what the [__] are you talking about
these pieces do not go together i do not
know what you're talking about
seriously that [__] really pisses me off
to the point where i just in my house if
something is getting put together i can
assure you it's done by a little greek
or woman
because i'm just gonna get mad that the
instructions were made poorly
because you need dumber people making
your instructions so i'm that dumb guy
that people set out into the world you
think i'm kidding but i'm not i
legitimately am just dumb enough that i
have to make a whole lot of really
stupid mistakes but i'm then just smart
enough to go okay cool there was a
better way to do this oh i see where i
was blind i see what i wasn't thinking
of and i can put that information
together and what i think is the
ultimate instruction manual on how to do
just about anything
and getting my head around how to be in
the eight percent of people that see
things through
that has been one of the first things
that i've had to learn
it won't be the only thing that we talk
about today but the greatest pillar in
that mix is going to be identity
one of the most beautiful things that
has
come into lisa and i's life is this
community and this is
this is the beginning of something and
the only thing that would get lisa and i
to come out and travel and go around and
spend this kind of time with people is
the biggest benefit that will ever come
out of impact theory and i was telling
the people that were at the dinner
tonight so originally the employees
wanted lisa and i to name the company uh
the tom bilyeu show tom bilyu studios
and i didn't want to do that i didn't
want it to be about me i think i am a
useful tool i'm very verbal
like i said i'm dumb enough to make the
mistakes smart enough to figure out some
of the solves i knew that i could be
useful at a certain phase of the company
to come up here and explain this stuff
but
ultimately if this doesn't go beyond me
if it doesn't become your company if you
guys don't wear the logo with as much
pride as i wear the logo then the ideas
themselves will never get out there so
what we're trying to do is create an
idea virus and we hold every idea to one
criteria does it make the person's life
better so if you take an idea and
implement it in your life and it makes
your life better then it's going to
naturally get passed on to other people
around you that want to know how your
life is getting better and so that's
what we want impact theory to be and the
people that we have attracted with the
no [__] approach of like yo this
works and i'll never back down from
something that works and because lisa
and i did not get uh famous for being
famous we've built companies we had our
head down for dec decades
literally decades with no sense that
there would ever be a camera attached to
it just trying to build things of value
that touched people's lives and that was
our obsession so that's what we got good
at so for us the the attention the
notoriety is all just a tool to get that
idea virus out there and spreading and
so
when we get a chance to be with you guys
face to face to meet the people that
are ultimately going to bring the most
value to
each other like that's the juice for us
so
understand that the people that you're
sitting around today that are to your
left and to your right behind you next
to you
those are going to be the people you're
going to make connections with that are
going to help you actually elevate
yourself look it's not a joke there's a
reason that people say that you're the
average of the five people you spend the
most time with and one of the most
frequently asked questions i get is
where do i find like-minded people so
that's precisely what we're trying to
put together is a group
an ever-growing group of people
that hold themselves to a very simple
standard and that standard is does it
work
not does it sound cool on a [__]
t-shirt does it actually work not was it
a an uplifting thing to write in your
journal did it [__] work like are you
actually moving towards your goal or not
and that is our obsession i really
really believe that if people listen
there are simple rules procedures steps
beliefs
that you can put in place in your life
and simply adhering to those things in a
certain sequence will change your life
forever and the number one thing that
we're going to be talking about at least
in this context is identity now here's
the thing about identity you get to
decide
who you're trying to be
and i'll say it like that because in the
beginning anything [__] interesting
is going to be and i'm trying to be it's
not going to be who you are now i'm
going to throw out some really [__]
simple ones that will give you an
immediate sense of just how much
definition comes crashing down on you
with these words if i say to you
my identity
is that of the warrior
what does that make you think
i hear savage
i'll get down with that
no excuses beast
goggins that's got its own whole set of
baggage
so you guys see how quickly that one
identity
has like all this
weight to it it has dimensionality
it brings a lot of thought so if i say
i'm a warrior and you mentally just fill
that in with david goggins and you're
telling people i'm a warrior then to be
congruent it's this thing this is an
innate thing in the human animal for
whatever weird [__] reason humans
want to be congruent so if you tell
somebody you are something then you want
to act in congruence with that otherwise
it does not feel good and if you say
you're going to do something and you do
it then it does feel good
so if you say i am a warrior or i'm
becoming a warrior whatever way feels
good to you might i suggest just saying
you are i am a warrior it's gonna get
you acting a lot more because here's
what you need
one of the most important things to
seeing
a resolution or a goal across the finish
line is not fun it's not fluffy this is
the [__] that leaves people in the 92
percent because no one kicks him in the
[__] ass and says hey
[__] you said you were going to
do this and you're not doing it and let
me tell you that's not okay welcome to
the first couple years of my marriage
that's [__] true by the way that is
some real [__] let me tell you this
[__] is not for play i know she
looks cute
she looks real [__] cute and she
hides behind that 5-1 [__]
but let me tell you
this [__]
is not for play
is that a lie
[Applause]
and i am so grateful for that
because i said one thing and i was
acting another way
and look
she wasn't gifted at that moment of
knowing exactly what and how to say and
all that so we were clumsy through all
of this so some event i'm gonna
repackage for you
but the real thing was i wasn't being
congruent and she called me on that [__]
the reason that people don't see their
goals through is because it is [__]
hard to kick yourself in the ass it's
even harder to invite people into your
life who will kick you in the ass and
hold you to a standard because it's
going to [__] hurt you're going to
feel judged even if you have asked them
to
deliver that role even if that is what
you want from them it still hurts and
it's still going to make you push back
and it is still the realest [__] ever it
is exactly what you need and without it
you will languish in the 92 i [__]
guarantee it it is the truth of the
human condition
consistency
is what puts you in the six percent
eight
i have the flu bear with me
plus i never claim to be good at math
if you want to get into
that rare group that actually sees it
through it really is a game of
consistency and i remember when i first
got into business and i began changing
my identity
i used to say to lisa a lot i just need
to hang on long enough
to figure this out
i had an just like an intuitive sense
that some of the battle was
surviving the attrition
because it just wears on you
and if you guys have ever watched navy
seals go through their training
buds and hell week and all of that it's
really a game of where is your breaking
point now everybody has a breaking point
you need read no further than the gulag
archipelago if you want to see everybody
has a breaking point
but the question is how far back
can you push your breaking point how far
out so if david goggins says when you
think that you're 40 of the way there or
when you think you're all the way there
you're really only 40 of the way there
and i actually told myself that today
because i was like [__] now when i woke
up this morning like i know enough about
how energy is actually created in the
body at a cellular level so i know that
while there is a certain amount of how
you feel is make-believe there's also a
certain amount if you don't generate atp
you actually do die no matter how hype
you are
you could be the most hyped [__]
and if you have no more mitochondria
making atp you did
you're the most hyped dead [__]
ever but you're still dead
so i was like [__] man am i gonna be
able to generate this energy like at an
atp level am i for real going to be able
to because i know that i'll dig deep i
know that i'll show up i'm not going to
cancel no matter how tired i am that is
outside of my identity
so i know all of that's off the table
but is there am i going to encounter
that moment today where i'm like i reach
for the energy and the energy simply is
not there
and then i remembered gogan saying man
when you think you're spent you're
really only 40 of the way there
and i thought all right we're good
and it's true
and that's where getting into that
consistency of all the times you don't
want to do it and then recognizing
depending on what your identity is that
your identity mandates that you keep
going even when it sucks
and there's there is some in fact i'm
gonna give you i'm gonna give you the
gift of
a visualization
and this is the visualization
you have the flu
you have a temperature
it's a shitty flu too it's that shivery
stuff it's shivering one minute baking
the next nothing tastes good it's all
horrible your hound is your head is
pounding
and you've got something
that you have to do that day
can you all imagine that that feeling of
like there is no staying in bed today
it's what i should do it's what i want
to do
but it's not an option and in this
moment i'm going to change your life
with this [__] and i really do mean the
following sentence tonight will change
you if you let it
if you let what i'm about to say become
your default answer the rest of your
life will be different i am not kidding
so it's in that moment
whatever it is maybe it's a funeral
a death in your family
so you know you have to go or maybe this
is your last chance to see someone
before they die or maybe this is your
child's graduation
whatever is that level of importance to
you
and you feel like 10 pounds of ass and
you don't know
if you can get out of bed
and in that moment
you're going to know to the core of your
being
there's nothing in this [__] world
that will stop me from going to that
certainty
there's nothing there is nothing more
intoxicating than certainty when you
know about yourself let me tell you i
will [__] show up i give my wife the
look sometimes because she's worried
about my health she's worried about my
longevity and i'm worried about one
[__] thing and this is the truth and
i invite you into my madness because
this madness will take you to places you
cannot [__] imagine and they are all
glorious my friends
and my madness is this
i know who the [__] i am
and if i have to face down death to be
who the [__] i am then i will face that
down and that does not scare me dying
does not scare me putting myself out
there running the actual risk of hitting
the point where i cannot generate enough
atp to continue to [__] breathe that
does not scare me what scares me
is not being the person that i want to
be
and you need that kind of pressure
so you want to see your goals in 2020
come to fruition
people better be [__] worried about
you you better act like a goddamn psycho
[Music]
and when my wife comes to me
and tells me
hey maybe you shouldn't come
maybe you should just relax i don't even
say a word i just do this
and she knows
all right all right all right
fine
and then usually says something like
it's your ass
if you want to be tired you be tired
just go be sick in a different bedroom
now my wife is crazy supportive she does
make me give her the look sometimes but
there there are right or die people in
this world and she is definitely one of
those
[Music]
i will give her that i will give her
that
almost more than the words i'm saying i
want you guys to pay attention to the
amplitude with which i say them so first
of all there's a really weird thing in
your brain where your brain is
retroactively justifying the amplitude
of your expression
so
if you freak out that someone cut in
front of you in line then your brain's
like yeah that [__] is [__] crazy man
that's practically genocide homie
be careful with that actually that is
what your mind does it's like [__] well
jesus we just reacted really big that
must be some crazy [__]
so make sure that it actually is some
crazy [__] because i see people flip the
[__] out over some really stupid [__]
conversely if you don't want something
to be a big deal
this actually works
then just don't react big to it just be
chill about it
like [__] tom your leg is [__] off
yeah
that's gonna take some stitches
it's all good though i've got two
[Music]
if you have that kind of chill response
like you will be shocked the things you
can get through
in my company which i get hey apparently
you guys know impact theory
in the impact theory
we take these tests
and it tells you about your personality
and you get a score
and one of the things you score on is
like a calmness reading
now by nature i will not say that i'm a
calm person by nature i will say that
i'm afraid
that's how i came up
but i have
chosen a new identity
that does not allow me to react with
fear
i understand the mechanisms of the human
animal
i believe in them i don't see any reason
to try to pretend that they're not real
so i know it is a truism
that my brain will retroactively try to
justify
whatever level
my reaction is so if i give a big
reaction it must have been that
important and if i give a chill reaction
then it must not be that big of a deal
and i have found in the moment where you
most want to panic downshift that [__]
and literally just click into another
gear slow down normally nine times out
of ten when i'm doing something i'm
trying to speed my brain up and i can
feel that [__] happen i can feel it
going to another gear and i know if i
start talking right now i will be able
to talk much faster than i could maybe
even 30 seconds ago because i'm giving
my brain that command to speed up
but in those moments
i slow that [__] down
i talk slower
i move slower
i use a different register in my voice a
different level of intensity i'm not
pushing my words out i'm even doing
different [__] with my face
and then my brain is reading it as oh
this isn't that big of a deal and you
start doing that enough and that
emotional control that lisa talked about
that i didn't have at the beginning of
our relationship you begin to realize
just how malleable all of this stuff is
that's how you begin to piece together
the truth
behind owning i'm a warrior
now you don't have to use that word
you want to pick something that matters
to you but let me tell you warrior
was good for me in the beginning because
i felt like i was anything but
but i had just gotten married
and i felt an overwhelming sense of
obligation to be able to physically
protect my wife
hey
you say some old school [__] if you
want but that mattered to me
tremendously
and so i started hitting the gym
i started hitting the gym with one thing
in mind which is if somebody came and
was trying to do something to my wife
that i would be able to stop it
and so i started telling myself i am a
warrior
i am here to protect you
no matter what i would lay my life down
for you i don't think there's anything
this is not a joke i don't think there's
anything i have rehearsed more times
than
getting myself in a situation where i
killed some [__] trying to get
to my wife because don't rehearse dying
for that's that's not the one you want
to be good at
what do you do when surrounded by 200
enemy soldiers and you're all alone
you kill them all
i don't even understand the question
and so i would practice that in my mind
over and over and over and over and over
and the more you rehearse something in
your mind the more it begins to entrench
your brain is literally
going through a myelination process it
is connecting pieces of your brain
because what your brain your brain is
like this weird skitch thing that's
constantly shifting back and forth
between being an active species going
out and exploring and gaining mastery
over your environment and then on the
other hand chilling on the couch and
eating a bag of chips you guys with me
that's because your brain sucks up a lot
of calories it is crazy it eats up
something like twenty percent of your
calories but it's like three percent of
your body mass
so the brain is calorically very
expensive
so you have genes that both propel you
to go and pull you back to stop because
in ancient times you were not going to
come across as many calories as you
needed to keep things going at all times
so you have this constant interplay of
go and stop so that's why i will just
tell you by nature i am super [__]
lazy for sure 100
not like oh laziness is in my past like
that [__] is a flavor flav style clock i
wear around my neck at all [__] times
that is just true
i wish that it was not that would make
life a lot more fun but the fact is that
i'm super [__] lazy what is up my
friend tom bill you here and i have a
big question to ask you how would you
rate your level of personal discipline
on a scale of one to ten if your answer
is anything less than a ten i've got
something cool for you and let me tell
you right now discipline by its very
nature means compelling yourself to do
difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring and even when you might be afraid
of the outcome if you fail building your
levels of personal discipline is not
easy but let me tell you it pays off in
fact i will tell you you're never going
to achieve anything meaningful unless
you develop discipline if you're not
already a 10 out of 10 with this skill
and i use that word intentionally
because it is a skill you can build it
you can get better at it class from
impact theory university called how to
build ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
promise if you want to achieve your
goals this is the number one thing you
have to focus on as jocko willing says
discipline equals freedom right click
the link on the screen register for this
class right now and let's get to work i
will see you inside this workshop from
impact theory university until then my
friends be legendary peace out
so i have to recognize okay there's a
reason for that laziness understand how
it works for and against me and one of
the ways that it works for you is your
mind is always trying to decrease the
cost of things that you think with
frequency so be very careful my friends
whatever you think
repeatedly
will hardwire so it becomes more
energetically efficient to think that
thought
now the brain when in neutral will do
what
think
you ever once sat and just found
yourself an hour later going well [__] i
didn't think about anything for an hour
isn't that meditation no you're like i
have to [__] grocery stop i gotta go
get the kids i think i'm getting a
little fat like this is
that's the real
so in neutral your brain will cough up
thoughts at an alarming rate
non-stop violence but it's gonna go to
the least energetically expensive
thoughts it has which is why you loop
around the same [__] that dumb person
that dumped you when you were 14 and
you're 46 and you're still [__] on
that [__] it's like why the [__] myself
this is crazy
they're in an old folks home now the
[__] do i care
but you care because that became the
easy [__] to think back when you were 14
and really gave a [__] and so now it's
just there because you've hardwired it
you keep looping on that [__] and you
don't do what's called pattern interrupt
you gotta pattern interrupt that [__]
and you've gotta not only break up the
old pattern you've got to give it a new
pattern that new pattern should be
something around your new identity so
you're going to start repeating that
[__] to yourself so if you want to know
what identity you need to take on it
better be something that's going to help
you with your 2020 resolutions whatever
your [__] goals are who do you need
to be to make that [__] real and now
imagine this this is the [__]
greatest news i'm gonna have for you all
night this is the greatest news anyone
is ever going to have for you
whoever you can imagine
and i used to imagine
bruce wayne
whoever you can imagine
you can become
step one for bruce wayne
get rich
what was the entire first arc of my life
about
getting rich
the only difference was i actually
believed i could do it
and so i put all of my time and energy
into making that real and because that
was the thing i was focused on it was
the identity that i had i used to think
about him read the comics obsessed with
batman lisa and i's first dog was named
batman ah [__] obsessed man i wanted
to be that [__] now i picked him
obviously because he had only real human
abilities it seemed far more attainable
than trying to like figure out how to
fly and [__] like that which i'm not
ruling out by the way hey
let me tell you put elon musk on that
[__] long enough
something tells me
but you have this vision of who you want
to become and you can actually become
that person it is the systematic
acquisition of the beliefs
the rules which we probably won't have
much time to talk about tonight but the
blue huh there's sadness over the rules
not not the one that i expected uh the
the sadness over we'll have to do some
rules at some point
you have to know what you do and don't
do what you do allow and don't allow and
one of the things that i know a lot of
people struggle with is
self-doubt so if you guys look at the
25-point bullet belief system the impact
theory belief system i use those a lot
of times as rules so some of them are
like the perfect rules we only do
and believe that which moves us towards
our goals now if you adopt that one
right now in fact for tonight the one
rule you need because this [__] will get
you where you want to go the one rule
you need
do and believe
and believe
only that which moves you towards your
goal so if you find yourself looping
around what a piece of [__] you are how
stupid you are how much worse than
everybody else you are how everybody
else does things more easily than you if
you find yourself in that loop one
remember the more you repeat it the
easier it becomes to think which means
you're going to think it more often
because your brain in idle is going to
kick up a lot of thoughts and it's going
to go to the ones that are most
energetically efficient which will be
whatever the [__] you've been thinking
about for the last 10 years non-stop
so that negative loop is real [__]
easy to play it's like a dj that only
has one [__] track
but that [__]
gets real easy to play
so it's gonna be looping around that
and you're going to have to ask yourself
one simple question does believing that
i'm a dumb ass move me towards my goals
if it does then i'm going to do it
because i have a rule about that [__]
and i do and believe anything that moves
me towards my goals if on the other hand
and if i had to hazard a guess
i'm going to guess that it does not
serve you to believe that you're a
dumbass and that everybody is better
than you that just seems like a shot in
the dark now occasionally you may want
to use a little bit of that pain to get
you going that's some advanced class
[__] we're going to set that aside for a
second for right now i think we can all
agree that it would far better behoove
you to say i can learn anything i set my
mind to
i'm not going to waste time worrying
about whether i'm a dumb ass right now
because i know this i do not have to
stay a dumb ass and i can learn whatever
the [__] i need to learn in order to get
to my goals
so that is one of the rules that will
come to your aid all the time that will
pattern interrupt that negative thought
that you're having that will stop it
from being the easiest thought to think
because it stops being the most frequent
thought that you think
now
building your
ultimate sort of version of yourself
is a very complicated endeavor
but if you get the identity right you're
probably 60 of the way there
so figuring out exactly who you want to
become and then believing
that you can actually become that person
and by all means pick somebody who's
real
you don't have to pick a fictional
character
hey be tom
b i love that so here's the thing
now you want to identify what are the
things that make tom tom
okay number one [__] tenacity
okay this guy he's like a dog with a
[__] bone i don't know what this what
is with this guy you're already rich set
the [__] down why are you doing all this
right so i am inhumanly driven i have a
psychotic need to matter
why
like what's that all about dude it's
like a sickness get a [__] therapist
i hold myself to a crazy high standard
i do and believe that which moves me
towards my goals
i have the identity of a learner
so i have a whole obsession around being
anti-fragile
you could do a lot worse like i will say
as an archetype of an identity i've
cobbled together some really useful [__]
so
i'm all for that one but it certainly
does not need to be that it can be also
a class
like warrior instead of someone very
specific
it can be a class that's a known name
but you give it very different
specifications of what you expect from
that person but you need to have a clear
sense
of what that person does and doesn't do
because this is meant to be a filter for
your behavior this is meant to be the
thing that's going to come to your
rescue
when you have a 103 degree temperature
but you still have something that you
need to do
it is going to be your identity so your
identity has to give you these huge
rewards in fact if you look up the word
discipline
discipline comes from an old french word
jeremy how'd i do
it's actually true
it comes from that word
and it's all about
basically developing enough self-control
through punishment
can look this [__] up
that you build enough self-control
through punishment that you can follow a
set of rules
that's literally what discipline is all
about discipline has like a
more militaristic
connotation but it is really about
punishing something until it falls in
line
line and humans are really [__] bad
at this people get all up in arms when i
talk about punishment but until you
learn to punish yourself you're gonna be
in the 92 percent of people that never
see [__] through because you're not
putting enough [__] pressure on
yourself you don't want this [__] badly
enough there aren't big enough
consequences on the other side and until
this is like a [__] must-have why
would you do it it's [__] hard and
you have a voice in your head screaming
at you to sit on the couch potatoes
that's the [__] thing
you're up against that [__]
so this is about building this like
intense must have in this [__]
and like if you're gonna model yourself
after me let me tell you the ability to
build desire that [__] is my like secret
[__] weapon man i can go from not
caring about something to it's my
[__] life i'm not kidding in like 45
minutes
because i know the mechanisms i know the
mechanisms of the way that the human
mind works i understand what i call the
physiological hooks that you can reach
in there and alter your physiology if
you've never done this before [__]
meditate for the love of god
because the simple act of breathing
through your [__] diaphragm will move
you out of the sympathetic nervous
system and take you into the
parasympathetic nervous system it is a
[__] seesaw you cannot be both
[__] amped up to the high heavens and
fight or flight and at the same time be
rest and digest
it doesn't happen you're one or the
other it is the way nature has designed
the [__] system so you are either
going to be in fight or flight
or you're going to be in rest and digest
and by breathing through your diaphragm
you can change it that is so [__]
weird i can't believe that that is true
and for years i didn't meditate because
i thought it was too feminine
and finally mark devine and navy seal
pulled me aside i said tom stop being a
dumbass i literally kill people for a
living and i'm telling you
meditation is the [__]
all right all right
i'll stop being a dumbass
and i sat down and literally from the
first diaphragm breath that i'd ever
taken intentionally
i could feel i could feel myself in real
time
moving into
that relaxed state and i was like [__]
man is somebody dealing with anxiety i
just could not believe how it was
pulling me in this new direction just by
breathing from my diaphragm and warriors
say that the abdomen is the soul of the
warrior and i suddenly understood why
that was true
it is the place that lets you center
yourself it's the place that lets you
find calm in the midst of a storm that
is a physiological hook now there are
physiological hooks that go the other
way that make you feel more aggressive
right i could [__] dram up here as
like cartoon characters right you can
look at somebody's posture somebody's
sitting back in a chair all relaxed
right that person's not about to get up
and attack and then if i do this this is
mine man if i'm sitting at a table and i
need to get real [__] in time i'm
actually about to break this microphone
i start tensing my muscles if i bring my
chin down in your presence and i start
looking up
then no i've moved into a different zone
i'm ready to [__] attack i'm ready to
do this whatever this thing is let's get
after this [__] and just doing
that and just tilting my chin down
putting my forehead out a little bit
gritting my teeth
gripping my hands making a fist leaning
forward
projecting my voice speaking from my
diaphragm all of that stuff begins to
transform how i [__] feel it isn't
just how i'm acting it is this weird
reciprocal loop that the more that i act
like that the more my brain's like [__]
yeah this let's go [__]
we got this
you get into that zone you can actually
feel yourself changing from a
neurochemical place and this is this oh
man i really want you guys to hear this
you've got to [__] puppeteer yourself
you've got to puppeteer yourself and
when you start doing that you will step
into this whole new world of realizing
that your body does not have to control
you
you can leverage your body
i won't even say control it you can
leverage your body
to get into
useful
neurophysiological states
from those useful
you can then attack certain problems i'm
going to ask you guys a question
who here
in the span of a single day
has ever thought
i'm the [__] man or woman
and then in that same day thought
no i'm i'm a [__] [__]
i was wrong earlier
i'm [__] dumb
all right who's ever gone through that
cycle in a single shower
i have like a [__] thousand times
it's crazy
now the thing that i noticed is
if i were to act when i'm feeling like a
[__]
who
i'm timid
i'm far less willing to take a big risk
bold ideas
don't even come i'm not going there i
can feel there's a contraction in your
mind it's probably not literal but it
does feel literal it feels like things
are shutting down your shoulders come
forward you just feel smaller the
neurochemistry changes in your mind
you're probably not thinking as fast
like do you guys
feel that as really as i do like there
is a real consequence when my mind slips
into that zone
now flip it
i have made a living out of finding ways
to get myself into that power mode where
i feel like yo
i'm a [__] badass i got this and
largely by the way through rules like
being decisive
i have simply demanded that i be
decisive now i've made decisive
decisions that cost me hundreds of
millions of dollars okay so i'm not
saying it's all upside
down
but i am saying that i would never have
been in a position to lose hundreds of
millions of dollars if i had been afraid
to make decisions
so you've got to understand how to get
in there how to puppeteer yourself so
that you're not at the whims of why one
moment you feel like a stud and then the
next minute you feel totally weak and
incapable because i'm telling you you
get a mood swing through it all
sometimes you're going to be up
sometimes you're going to be down and
you've got to find a way not to just be
along for the ride you've got to find a
way whether it's a [__] song which
man i don't know about you guys but
there are just some songs that do it i
just can't feel like a loser with
certain songs you should have seen this
woman getting herself hyped to come up
here and do this intro literally like 20
minutes of like a jazzercise class it
was [__] crazy
i was impressed
everybody's got a song that gets them to
the place that they need to be
or if it's not a song whatever it is for
you bench pressing
drawing skipping rope with your puppies
i don't know but whatever your thing is
you've got to find it you've got to find
that thing that makes you powerful
you've got to be on the lookout for it
because you've got to be at will to be
able to step into that if you want to
see your goals through that's the
[__] truth the reason that people
don't see their goals through is so
multifaceted there are so many things
that are coming at you you're going to
get bored your goal isn't going to seem
cool anymore you're going to kind of
forget that you had it it's like oh [__]
yeah i was going to do that the kids are
going to get sick you're going to have
too many business trips all at once
you're going to be
fighting with your spouse the car breaks
down you can't afford to get it repaired
like just on and on and on and on and on
there will be this onslaught of reasons
not to do the thing that you want to do
and it's so easy to put off because you
didn't take the time to tell other
[__] what your new identity is
so you can imagine when tom decided he
was a warrior and that he was going to
start lifting weights if my body wasn't
changing that would have been a pretty
obvious thing so i remember in the
beginning yo do i really tell people
because if i don't tell they don't know
and then i can just say scrawny
and then i remember thinking [__]
i want lisa to see me naked
and
she'll know
all right so i guess
we'll hit the gym
start doing our thing and so i started
telling everybody that would listen
like to an embarrassing level anybody
that would listen yo i'm gonna look like
hugh jackman in
x-men this is gonna be the [__] this
this sort of dates when this all
happened but
i was like i'm gonna look like hugh
jackman
oh [__]
look at that
there it is
the rage that you see on my face by the
way you're gonna think i'm kidding but
i'm not i would imagine exclusively my
wife being attacked
that was quite literally i hate working
out more than you can imagine so i had
to find some way to connect to it so i
used to stare at her with like all this
fury and rage and she would catch me
from across the gym like
hi i know what you're doing it's nice
and
then just go [__] at it but it worked
it worked and that that is how oh yep
you stay consistent there it is uh well
thank you
funny story just to really derail for a
minute so the photo on the left uh right
your left
um
i did not ever expect that to be the
before photo so i'd been lifting really
hard and getting big i was on what they
call a seafood diet if i saw food i ate
it uh it was actually horrible that
sounds like it would be fun it is not
fun i assure you if anyone's ever had
the meat sweats you know what i'm
talking about
and
went to see a friend that i hadn't seen
in years literally years so i go from
like a buck
55 a buck 60 maybe to 230 pounds i wear
my tightest t-shirt i expect her to be
like oh my god he put on so much muscle
this is [__] crazy i can't believe it
and she says
nothing not a word
from 160
to 230 not a word that's 70 pounds
[__] i was like what and so i
say to my wife when we're leaving i'm
like
man that's crazy right she didn't say
anything about it and lisa goes oh maybe
it's just because she thought you got
fat
i was like [__] you for real
why didn't you tell me
fat
you mean
so i was like all right take the [__]
before photos
and don't ever let it get this far again
so then began the hateful part of
transforming which is getting lean
yeah anybody here have a weight loss
goal for 20 20.
nice is probably the most popular goal
and weight loss is
is brutal if you do it wrong
and magically delicious if you do it
right so i did it wrong hey remember
staying true to my persona here being
just dumb enough to uh have to do
everything the hard way so i did what
they call rabbit starvation so for two
years i ate literally nothing but
protein so i had boiled chicken breast
and steamed broccoli now i have crazy
discipline that that i will give myself
once i set my sights on something using
identity and some of the other things
we've talked about i'm going to see that
[__] through so i knew i was going to
get lean i'd always wanted six pack abs
so i boiled chicken breast steamed
broccoli
with basically no cheating i won't say
never but man it was rare it took me two
years to do it and my wife finally
pulled me aside once early in our
marriage she said hey you're now working
so much that you're damaging the
marriage and then she pulled me aside
again and said bs you no longer have a
personality
and i was like
oh god i can't take any criticism
because i'm so hungry
so after talking me down
crying in a like huddle in the corner
i finally was like all right this is
probably true and my joints hurt so
badly which rabbit starvation is
terrible for literally everything except
your abs that [__] i will give it
very good for your abs
uh
murderous but there are far cooler ways
i won't go into that but i will say that
if you're going on a weight loss journey
the only thing i'm going to remove from
you entirely 100
is excuses okay
people on a weight loss journey the
number of excuses that your mind will
kick up because it does not want to go
through this change which will be hard
it is as hard as you think it is it's
just not impossible like most people
will be tempted to believe at one point
or another i certainly did i became
convinced that i just hey look my whole
family is morbidly obese baby it's just
never gonna happen for me i'm just not
built like that i used to get so mad at
her this [__] she can eat like cold
stone ice cream and like not she'll get
hot she will get hot but she doesn't
gain fat
and i was like
i'm getting fat so fast you can hear me
getting fat over the [__] tv
i was like this is crazy how can we
she's half my size how can she eat the
same calories and not get fat that's
crazy
so different things work for different
people i will just tell you that is real
so make sure that you try things for
yourself don't take people's word for it
it's going to be a lot of fad this fat
that whatever
but something will work for you 100 i
guarantee it it's about consistency and
95 of the battle is what you do not put
in your mouth this has got to be
something that you believe in it should
be something that you're so [__]
excited about like the most exciting
thing hopefully that you heard tonight
because you let it change you is that
you really can become whoever you want
to become i don't care if you're
like you still have all the time in the
world to become whoever you want to
become so
whoever it is that you want to be no
matter how many times you may have
failed at attempting to become that
person leading up to this point you can
still become that person you're going to
decide who that is whether it's a
category like warrior or whether it's a
specific person that you want to emulate
you're going to break their world down
into do's and don'ts
how they would react to certain
situations you're going to hold that
ideal in your mind and you're going to
force yourself
to act in accordance you are going to
tell people what you're up to and if you
really have some balls you're going to
tell people that want you to fail
because that believe it or not that's
who's going to come to your rescue in
your darkest hours of wanting to give up
it's going to be remembering that out
there is someone who's laughing at you
who wants you to fail that's talking
behind your back about how you're never
going to achieve it and then imagine how
[__] rad it will be when you actually
do achieve it
there is the darkness and the light my
friends and you have to play in both
you've got to know 80 of your time in
the light focus on the beautiful things
you want to create and what you want to
do with your life and all that
there's 20 percent
some straight darth vader [__]
like you've really got to lean into that
there is real power
in anger frustration in not wanting
somebody to get one over on you on
winning against all odds all of that
stuff it is really powerful and this is
one of those things that i find a lot of
times people are willing to lean on one
tactic but not the other this
set aside all your judgments about the
tactics
the human animal is designed a certain
way anger exists for a reason pressure
exists for a reason
i always tell people if you want to make
real change the number one thing missing
from your equation i promise you is
massive pressure there has to be massive
pressure there also has to be massive
desire you've got to really want it
there has to be massive pressure there's
got to be a cost to not doing it
congruence is one part of that you've
told people
so you want to be congruent with that
but you also just have to hold yourself
accountable i am a warrior i [__]
show up at the gym i fight for my wife
i roll up when the team is counting on
me and keep in mind for a year leading
up to my initial flu game i was telling
the team let me tell you right now in
fact where's the team i want to hear
from you
wow that was some weak ass [__]
that was weak
weak as [__] the these are the people
you guys are counting to build this
community by the way
impact theory would you [__]
like to try that again
where's my team
there we go
all right
did i not lay myself on the line and say
i will [__] show up for you
i will never fail you if you ever need
me i will [__] be there morning noon
night sick health doesn't matter i will
show up and i will play yes or no
and have i ever let you down
all right that was still weak i should
i won't lie in my mind that was like yes
like literally freaking out tears like
oh god
lisa like wailing on her chest you know
like the whole night that's how it
played in my mind but i'm not afraid to
make mistakes you try some sometimes you
win sometimes you learn so there we go
don't rely on team for big enthusiasm
noted
all right but i told these people
whom i love dearly
that i would show up for them
that it was important to me that they
knew that they could count on me at all
times now i had said it so many [__]
times the day that i woke up with the
flu i didn't want to go in
i wanted them to be like nah nah man
you're good you're good we already
canceled it man go home
but because i had been saying it for so
long
i was like there is no universe in which
i do not show up so of course my wife is
like hey look you don't need to do this
you work so hard everybody knows how
hard you work and i was like over my
dead body
i will go i will do this because it's
important to me
and when you get to that where nobody
needs to be looking
you're doing it because that's who you
want to be
then you will have won
and that is the secret to identity
oh that
it's you have a vision of who you could
become for real in real life
and then you act in accordance with that
you guys there is no greater feeling
generating wealth is awesome not gonna
lie it's rad and i hope everybody gets
the chance to do that but it is not
better than saying you were going to
become a certain kind of person the kind
of person that is hard to be the kind of
person where you have to really show up
and play and when you do that when you
show up and play and the stakes were
high and they mattered and it was really
hard but you did it anyway and you do it
time after time after time and you're
consistent and people can rely on you to
the point of taking it for granted
that [__] feels so good
that feels so good man this is the kind
of stuff that nobody can take away from
you this is the kind of thing that
allows you to take big risks they say
that the people that take the biggest
risks have the strongest home life
because you have an anchor you have that
port you have somewhere to go back to
you can be that for yourself
through your identity
be someone that you would look up to it
was right out of the video in the
beginning
2020 i want to become somebody that i
can look up to
that's a [__] awesome goal
and i hope each and every one of you
will set that goal and stick to it
because if you do
if you act in accordance with somebody
that is worth your admiration your life
will never
be the same all right thank you guys for
coming out i'm gonna answer questions
[Music]
you